All right, so in this particular
video, let's start from very
basics and from the beginning.
Okay, so what is a, system design?
So system design refers to a,
mechanism or a study
where you design the systems
to work on a scale.
Let's start from the very
beginning that what is a simplest
system design can look like.
For example, in your system
design you have a component and
everything starts from a, user
who is a user who is basically
interacting with your server,
who is basically using your
application.
So in your system design
component, you have users who
are talking to your server.
So let's create a server here.
So let's say this is
my server, right?
So what happens?
Your users send a request
to the server.
So this is your request.
Your server internally
processes this request.
What do I mean by process?
Process basically means
to do something on this
particular request, right?
It's your application logic.
For example, this can be anything
for examp, this can be talking
to database, maybe a DB query.
So user is asking for all the books.
So you have to make a DB query
to get all the books.
This can be a DB mutation.
Okay.
This can be something like,
you know, authentication.
This can be a, signup request.
This can be a simple validation.
So anything is basically a part
of your processing.
Okay, now to do this particular
processing, your system, your
server is connected to a database.
So let's say you have
a database here.
So we are using postgres database,
but it can be any database.
So you are basically have
a connection with the database.
So you use this for primarily
storing something, right?
To store your data and to
retrieve the data.
And once the request is
processed, you send back something
known as a response.
Okay, so this is how a typical
system design works.
And let me just reduce
this to a, medium.
Yeah, now this looks good.
So what happens?
A user sends a, request
to the server, server processes
this particular request and then
sends back a response.
And this is known as a request,
response cycle.
This is the simplest system
design diagram that you can see.
Okay, now what happens
here is a problem.
The problem is what happens when
your users tend to scale,
when you have a lot of users.
Right now there was only one
user, and your system was able
to interact and was able
to process this request.
But the problem happens when
you have a lot of users.
Even I will not, I'll not
say millions of users.
Even if you have hundreds of
users, which is a very small number,
your server might crash.
Your server can crash
for many reasons.
Maybe your server was not capable
of you, know, handling
100 requests, your server
didn't have enough resources.
So this is where your system
actually starts to crash.
And this is where the system
design as a subject comes in.
Okay, now let's do one thing.
Let's quickly analyze that, you know,
how these systems are internally
working and all that stuff.
What is this server?
Tell me just in one line,
what is the server?
Can I say that this server is
nothing but just a physical machine.
At the end of the day,
it's just a physical machine
running on a power.
Now this machine, a physical
machine running on a power
which is connected to an Internet.
Let's say this machine
has two CPU, okay?
And the configuration is
that it has a 4GB of RAM.
Now this particular machine is, you
know, somewhere, maybe it is at my
home, maybe it is in a data center.
And it has a, 24 by 7 power supply.
Right, 24 by 7, power supply.
Okay, so let me just, write it down.
Power supply.
And it has an Internet connection.
It has a public Internet connection.
Because only then, only then
the users can basically come
to this particular machine.
Okay, When I talk about Internet
connection and public availability,
can I also say that this
machine will have an IP address?
Let's say the IP address of this
particular machine is 2.3.4.5.
Okay?
So just taking a random example.
So what happens is these users, in
order to reach to your server, they
need to know the IP address, right?
You have to publicly tell that, hey,
my IP address is 2.3.4.5.
So if you want to visit my website,
please open this particular
IP address on your browser.
But do you really think that
this is a really nice way
to promote your server?
Is this a really nice way
to promote your application?
Can users really remember
your IP address?
No.
So what you can do is you can
actually buy a domain, right?
So let's say I can buy a domain that
is piyushgurk.dev and what I want is
that whenever someone visits this
particular domain, piushkurk.dev it
actually, it should basically
redirect the users to this
particular machine.
But wait, how can this
be even possible?
How can magically just typing
pushkube.dev in the browser can
actually redirect the user to this
server which is running on 2.3.4.5.
So the answer is actually
it is not possible.
This is where, your first system
design component comes in.
That is a DNS server.
Okay?
The full form for DNS
is Domain Name System.
So think of it as
a public phone book, okay?
It's a public phone book
which is a public database,
okay, which stores which domain
has what IP address.
So this public domain name system
has a phone book, is a large
database which knows that
piyushka.dev has this IP address.
Google.com has this IP address.
So it basically has records
of all the websites on the Internet.
So in your browser when you
very first time type
in piushka dot dev, your browser
has no idea where to go.
So your browser
makes a request to a DNS server.
This step is known as
a DNS resolution.
Okay?
Your DNS server returns this
particular IP address that
hey, from for piushka.dev
this is the IP address.
And now your browser is
basically redirected
to this particular server.
So whenever you type google.com you
are actually not interacting with
google.com your request goes to a
DNS server, DNS server first returns
an IP address and then internally
your browser redirects you to that
IP address.
Because by name you
cannot reach any server.
You need a, physical IP address
and it is very hard
to remember IP addresses.
That is where the DNS
server really shines in.
Okay, now you might be thinking,
it's an overkill, right?
For every domain you need to make
a DNS query, the answer is no.
There is something
known as DNS caching.
So your browser, whenever you type
a URL, if it doesn't have it in
the cache, that means it's a first
request, it goes to the DNS
server, asks for the IP address
and then it stores locally on your
machine.
Okay, it caches that particular
value on your machine so
that you don't have to do the DNS
resolution step again.
So, which basically saves you some
milliseconds and it also saves
some load on the DNS server.
Okay, so this is how your DNS server
works and this is how your users
are redirected to your server.
So this is your single
server and a, database.
Now this particular video was
on DNS server and you
know, just a kickstart
on the system design topic.
This is going to be really complex.
We are going to grow
this system a lot.
So be with me.
So right now we just know one
problem that you know, we just have
single machine and because you know
our DNS is redirecting the user to
this machine and as the user
increases, my system crashes, my
machine crashes.
Because 2 CPU 4GB RAM is such
a small configuration, 100
requests come in and that's it.
My server is gone.
So in the next video,
let's see how can I solve this
particular problem using something
known as scaling policies.
So let's meet you right there.